Predictor characteristics
The following rolling characteristics were developed:
- Rolling mean with window 7 days
- Rolling std with window 7 days
- Rolling max with window 7 days
- Rolling min with window 7 days
- Rolling difference with lag 1 day

The dates when maintenance activities have been performed were flagged as an additional variable.

Outcome definition
The outcome is defined according to the following rules:
Failures:
  - Maintenance/repairs of the machines
  - Values where sum of rolling means of acceleration values exceeds 4 times the standard deviation of the sum
 Non-failures:
  - All other cases
Outcome flag distribution:
Failures:
  51 cases
Non-failures:
  3372 days
  
SMOTE oversampling

Because of the small number of failures a synthetic oversampling technique was used in order to multiplicate the records.
Synthetic data points where created as additional failure records. The smaller subpopulation in the classification output
is made to be the same number of observation as the other class. In the our case the number of
failures is synteticaly oversampled to be equal to the non-failures. This has been done only to build a classification model. After that the
classification object has used on non-syntetic original data.


Modeling
A Support Vector Machine is built as a classification approach. In order to use the computing process in the most efficient way,
the kernel version of this model is used. Grid search is performed to optimize the performance of the model and the kernel, gamma
and C parameters were tuned in order to select the best performing model. 

Validation
All of the models were validated with hold-out sample which is 25% of each machine observations.

Performance
Confusion matices were creted on the validation to assess the discrimination performance of the model. The model has shown f1 score of

Deployment

The model can be used to build an application that returns a value of 0 when the current state of the machine doesn't show high probability of failure, and 1 if the machine is about to fail.
New data can be added on daily or weekly basis and the retrained model can be used to predict the class of the current state of the machine.
